So this is the movielens homepage at
movielens.org, where you can sign up or sign in. I will sign in. And since I've already signed in,
it takes me straight to the main page, where I can see a few different things. Right away, we can see that
I have some recommendations. Top picks. And these movies are movies that Movielens
thinks that I'm going to like to watch. It also shows me for
each one a predicted rating. How much it thinks that I'm going
to like that movie on a scale from one to five stars. I can also then go, and
I can rate a movie. Just by clicking on the number
of stars that I want to rate it. So, and it will save the rating and
use that in my future recommendations. We also see a few other recommendation lines here such as recent releases which
is just what's been come out currently. A list of movies that it
thinks would be useful for me to rate in order to
improve my recommendations. As well as favorites from the last year, which is movies from the past year that
Movielens users have rated highly. And then finally my wish list which
is movies that I've marked that I would like to see some day. So, there's various different lines,
some of which are intended for recommendations, some of
which are intended for the user's own reference as they
interact with their movies. All of the recommendations are produced
based on these five star ratings with some additional data, such as popularity,
how many people have rated the movie, etc. Movielens also allows you to exercise some
control over the recommendations you get. Up here I can see some basic
statistics about my ratings such as I have rated 322 movies. And it also allows me to pick
which recommender I want to use. Right now I'm using
a recommender called The Wizard. I can also pick The Warrior. In which case it tells me that
I'm changing recommenders, and shows me a different
set of recommendations. Very different set. I can also pick non personalized
recommender called the peasant, that does not take my past
preferences into account. And there's additional
recommendation options as well. So, In addition to picking
the recommender that I want to use, I can configure the recommender to
tweak aspects of its recommendation. Particularly, I can say, well, okay, these
recommendations are basically good, but I want less popular movies. And so it reorders my recommendations to
take out some of the popular movies and add in more movies that
aren't quite as popular. And as we can see it changes which
movies are picked up at the top picks. So Movielens allows us to use
different kinds of customization. So that the user can have a fair amount
of control over the recommendation. Also, when we go into
a movie's details page, we can see again the predicted raring Displayed both numerically and as stars. And we can see more detailed average
statistics, the average rating, and then, the number of ratings that
that average is computed from. As well as information about the movie,
such as its run time, its rating, and its synopsis, etc. Movielens users also tag movies so
that to describe them with various characteristics
such as dark humor or anti-hero. And then using tags we
can see similar movies. So, these are movies that are similar
as far as how users have tagged them, the words that have been
used to describe them. We can browse by these similar movies and
then we can refine our browsing by saying maybe I want
like Deadpool but less violence. And it will show me a variety of
typical superhero blockbusters. And I can add in more things,
like okay, less violence, but more stylized, and it will continue to
refine the kinds of browsing I can do. And it winds up saying
The Incredibles is like Deadpool, but less violence and more stylized,
which seems somewhat reasonable to me. So, those are a lot of the features
that we have available in Movie Lens. The recommender is integrated throughout. So, if I search for Batman, it's going
to show me a number of Batman movies but it shows me in here,
it continues to show me, everywhere, what I've rated it in orange or
my predicted rating in blue. It also allows me to change how I sort
the search results by recommendation, number of ratings, when it was released,
when it was added to MovieLens etc. So, MovieLens allows users to
find movies that they want. They provide ratings, it also serves as a log of the movies
they've seen and how much they liked them. They can go back and they can review
statistics about the ratings that they've seen to see whether they like common movies or or rarer movies. The distribution of their ratings. As well as draws the history of
the ratings they give and the movies that they're rating,
the genres they like, etc. To advise users with a way to do
fairly detailed exploration of movies, to track their movie watching and
get recommendations and also contribute to science since
it's an ongoing research platform. With that, thank you and
we hope you enjoy the rest of this class.