Welcome back. As we've been introducing recommender
system it's seems like it would be useful to give a little bit of
a historical perspective on recommender systems looking
at where they have come from. What some of the stages of
the field have been and just briefly it where they maybe going. And since I've had the privilege
of being there for most of this history,
I'm going to add in a little bit of the personal anecdotes where
I was part of this story. So, let's start before the term
recommenders systems was imagined before people talked
about collaborative filtering. Much of what we're doing in this field derives from things that were
already being done long before. Personalization is not
new with technology. Personalization is something that people
have done manually for a long time. If you go to a high-end department store,
you can engage a personal shopper, who will look at the wardrobe you have and
help you find clothing to go with it. If you are looking for
other forms of personalization, you can hire agents who
will help you find things. A travel agent who knows that you're
interested in a safari will keep his or her eyes out for the type of trip you would like, not just
something that anybody would want do do. And so the idea of manual
personalization is not new and in fact technology platforms had already been
develop for some of these specific cases. Personal shoppers had some simple
databases where they could run people's profiles through when new
products came in and getting an idea of who they might want to consider that would
be a good candidate for a new product. The idea of cross-sales and early product associations also
long pre-dates recommender systems. The simple notion that
either a marketer or a marketer assisted by
some basic statistics or early data mining would
figure out that gee, if we're putting on a sale on hamburgers,
it might be nice to have ketchup nearby. Or perhaps if we're in Belgium and we're frying potatoes will
have mayonnaise nearby. These ideas are things
that go back a long time. They started as intuition and experience,
and they grew into things that were supported by data, but
the idea of cross sales is not new. Product search while not strictly
what we think of as recommender systems was already getting into the idea
of customer ephemeral interests. And search engines of
various sorts were routine in libraries,
in collections of documents and products before recommender
systems came into place. So in that environment,
you get the early days. The inspiration and the rapid growth period in
today's recommender systems, particularly the automated collaborative
filtering systems, was the early 90s. The GroupLens group which I joined in '95,
was inspired back in '92 by a notion of an information economy and
in 1994 demonstrated and published a system of collaborative
filtering for Usenet news. The MIT group led by Patty Moz
developed the Ringo, also known in different
versions as Homer System for recommending music artists at
MIT published that work in 95. The video recommender by Willhill
others at Bellcore also 95, and so there was a very early recognition
in that period that wow this idea of nearest neighbor collaborative filtering
is something that has potential. Industry was doing this at the same time. The earliest companies that were trying
to sell on the web were realizing that they didn't have the ability
to have people browse the shelves. Amazon very quickly committed to
the idea of recommendation and of doing data-driven discovery of what products to
present to people in different contexts. If you look at some of
the early patents that show up, I've looked at them primarily in the US,
patents on recommender technology from all sorts of companies that were
standalone companies in the space. Trying to sell this as a service or that
were companies in the high tech sector or the retail sector were
actively flying around in the early to mid 90s with
attempts to use technology to figure out personalization
to select items from a catalog. And this was the time where many of the
research projects became commercialized. Agents, Inc., later Firefly Networks
came out of the MIT group, they were actively out there and
getting customers 95-96. Net Perceptions was the company that we
founded out of the GroupLens group in mid 96, we had already had
customers like Amazon and later CDNow in late 96 and
into 97 lots more customers, and there was a mix at that time
between the excitement of business. And some altruistic dreams
of primarily researchers and independent inventors who thought
that maybe this exciting recommender technology might not just be used
to sell things to people but to give people a better way
to explore all the options available to them about information or
products for their own purposes. Well, the next stage of this was
the Tech Bubble and then the Tech Burst. And during the Tech Bubble, recommendation
companies became amazingly popular, highly valued and recommendation technology was seen as a key technology
if people were going to compete. The idea was that attention
is highest value that there's all these competing firms that are looking
for you eyeballs and if you can put the right thing on the screen at the right
time, you're going to make lots of money. And then when the tech bubble burst,
people realized that wait a minute. This is just one part of a larger puzzle. Recommendation was put back into context
saying, well yeah, recommenders are nice, but customer relationship
management is important. Pricing is important,
all of these other things were important. And so there was this rapid ascent, and
this sort of rapid cooling off that came together, and
that period of recommenders growing. But growing slowly and
in integration with other techniques for managing customers continued
on during the early period of the 2000s, up until around
the announcement of the Netflix prize. Now, the Netflix prize emerged
as this behemoth in the field. For two reasons,
one was it's a million dollars, and two was if they're offering a million dollars
this must be really, really important. And the Netflix prize did
some interesting things. We're going to talk much more about it
over the course of this specialization. But the one thing that's undeniable
is that it attracted lots and lots of people, some from academia,
some from industries, some independent to start
working on the challenge of how am I going to do a better job, identifying
the items that people will like. The people who might have been focused
on data mining or machine learning and other disciplines,
many of them veered over and said, why don't we give this a shot,
there's a big dataset. And there's an incentive, and
the field just blossomed quickly. When we held the first
recommenders systems conference, it had about 130 people. A couple years later was 300, a few years after that it was close to 500. And a lot of that was fueled by
the excitement of people coming in, who are energized by
the Netflix competition. New algorithms emerged. This idea that the best way to find
a good algorithm might just be to run every algorithm that had
any merit and stock them together. And take the best of each, turned into a pretty disciplined technique
for creating really clever hybrids. We'll be talking about that
later in the specialization. New, more efficient matrix
factorization techniques were emerging. As people who had worked with
matrix factorization realized, hey, I could apply it here,
that would be pretty cool. A whole bunch of neat stuff was going on. And there were also some
mature realizations that emerged after the sort of
immediate excitement, and maybe the hangover of Netflix,
ending the competition. They had some concerns
about the fact that people were re-identifying their
anonymized dataset. And people started realizing that, well, maybe these prediction and basic top end
focused algorithms were a little limited. That there were some challenges. Maybe we were hitting the point
where people themselves are too inconsistent and we need to work
on getting people to be better. What was called the magic barrier. That you can't recommend more accurately
than people are capable of rating. And so maybe we need to figure out
how to help people rate better. The idea of the value
of recommendations and understanding, well, to what extent is
this recommendation helping a person versus just telling them to do
what they would've done anyway. And a lot of work looking at their
context of a recommendation, where, when and with whom,
reintegrating content, which at various times people threw content
away saying, we don't need this. Ratings tell us everything we need. Now, they turned around and
re-embraced it and realized, we never have
everything we need. Content might be a great way
to understand what's going on. So, as you ride this into the field today, we're talking about 2016. We now have lots of well known
algorithms in recommender systems, we'll be teaching those to you, and you'll be learning how to use them and
how to implement them. But effective recommendation
is still very much a craft. It's not that people can't pick
up the algorithm and use it. It's that understanding the data and understanding the usage cases and
the value proposition and what you're trying to get out of a
recommendation are much harder than simply throwing your data into an engine and
seeing what comes out. Understanding how you're going to balance, things like the diversity of what
gets recommended, how popular, do you want to recommend popular items,
do you want to avoid them, do you want to re-recommend things people consumed
before, do you want to avoid those? All of that still is very much a craft that people learn as they
work in recommenders. And recommenders are still largely,
not exclusively, but largely focused on business applications. I don't mean the business as
the domain but commercial providers, people that are trying to sell you
content, sell you products and services. Or at least trade your attention for
advertising or other forms of revenue. Whether that's music or videos or
just selling in news and products. There's a lot of creativity out there,
but this dream of recommenders for the sake of the consumer alone has
not really been realized except in a few stand-alone prototypes that
never really got wide adoption. So as we look forward, the wonderful thing about this field is
that there's a lot we still don't know. There are hard problems that are unsolved. The problem of temporal recommendation. How do I key my recommendations
not only to things like season which people have worked on for
a while but to sequence, what did you consume next given
that you've consumed this already. Recommendation for education which is one
of the areas were temporal matters a lot. There's already a lot of exploration
in high tech learning companies around the question of can I figure out
what lesson I might want you to take next based on what you've done before. And maybe what version of the lesson will
be most effective at helping you learn it based on not only you but other people
who've gone through those lessons. There's some hard problems in low
frequency, high-stakes recommendation. Can we really help you find a house,
or a surgeon, or other things that you don't
have a lot of ratings for? In a way that's better than
simple search and aggregation. And looking forward, recommenders is also
a recognized specialty now that brings together the benefits of machine learning
and data mining, business and marketing. Some of human computer interaction and
particularly understanding consumers to try to develop systems that
actually make a difference. So as we go forward, context remains
a huge and promising direction. We'll talk more about that. Sequences of all types,
sequences whether music. What songs go together well or
lessons in education. And all of the issues that come
around consumer lifetime value are promising directions. And when we think about lifetime value,
one of the early questions but still not solved is when do we exploit what we know about you
to give you something valuable. And when do we explore by giving you
something that we're going to learn more about you so
what we can serve you better later? How much of recommendation is
about cashing in and how much of recommendation is about investing in
your future as a lifetime customer? All of these are problems I
hope you will stick around, explore with us and
perhaps explore after us as you make your own roads into this exciting
field of recommender systems.