Welcome back. We've looked at how to do
non-personalized summary statistics as a way to
generate recommendations. But when we looked at that we realized
that the lack of personalization is something that can be a challenge. As the first step towards personalization,
we're going to talk about demographics. And related approaches to loosely
personalize if not to the individual then to some attributes of the individual. So what do we mean by demographics and
why? As I said,
popularity may not represent my tastes. Last time, we talked about why I might
not be interested in popular music, because popular music is dominated by
younger people with different tastes. But I might be interested in music
that is popular with my cohort. What type of cohort
would we be thinking of? I could have a cohort by age. Maybe people who were born
around the same time I am would like the same music because it
was popular when we were teenagers. We could have cohorts by gender. If there's certain products that
people are more interested in or less interested in if they're male or
female. You could have cohorts by race and
ethnicity, socioeconomic status, level of education, income, location. And various nondemographic
data that may be available and predictive of what people prefer. So that's our idea, if I can label
people with some of these attributes, can I do a better job making
recommendations as to the items that they would like by identifying what's
popular in their demographic. So, how do we do this? The first thing we end up doing is
identifying what demographics or correlates we have. Many of these can't be used
very easily directly and end up being processor bucketed. So age may be interesting but we probably don't end up saying
we're going to look at exact age. We may put it into convenient buckets,
15 to 18, 19 to 21, 22 to 29, whatever the right groups are that seem to
represent Spans of tastes. Postal codes,
zip codes in the US hold all sorts of interesting information about not only
geography but, socioeconomic status. There's income and
education variations by residence. Urban and rural status which can relate
to tastes for certain types of products. Dominant ethnicities. In some cases, there is one. In some cases particular zip codes,
are highly diverse. Any of these may require
transforming the data to say, I'm not going to look at postal codes,
specifically. But I have seven levels of urban-ness and
I'll see if those are relevant. Once you have these demographics,
it's time to start exploring, so what most people do at this
stage is one of two approaches. They either simply go out there and
say let's plot things and see what they look like,
looking at scatterplots. Or they have hypotheses about particular
demographic attributes that should relate, and they run statistical correlations. If you're interested in scatterplots,
this is actually a sample of scatter plots that was obtained by going to Google
and asking for images of scatter plots. The point here is not to
analyze any one in particular, but to show you a pattern
that's particularly useful. When a scatter plot looks like the one
that's in the middle of the screen where it's a big cloud, there is a sort of
relationship but it's pretty diffuse. If a scatter plot looks like a tight line,
like the ones in the upper center of the screen, there's probably
a very close relationship. And so here you can plot different things
about the popularity of particular products,about the popularity of
particular product categories. And plot them against age,
plot them against income, demographic categories, race,
gender, and other things. And see is there anything where
it looks like you have some interesting potential to do
a better job personalizing. Okay, lets assume you did find that, so
you've got some relevant demographics. The next step is to break down your
summary statistics by demographic. So, for
instance if you're running a web site that happens to know whether the person
showing up is male or female. You're selling things, and it turns
out that the most popular products for women are different from the most
popular products for men. Break down those summary statistics, and display the relevant products on
your page when a man or woman arrives. Some cases, you might even have
a factorial design where you say, I know we have popularity by male and
female. We also have popularity by age group and in fact,
within the age group by male and female. And so,
if you know that I'm a man age 45 to 60. You can try to sell me something different than you would sell
a woman aged 18 to 25 or a man aged 61 to 75. If you have multiple demographics
that are interesting here, another step you can take is to
build a multiple regression model. This would be a model that predicts
item preference or item sales. Some measure of popularity based
on these demographic statistics. You tend to need a lot of data for this. But they give you nice predictive models [COUGH]. >> Water? >> Not yet, I'll get it after this video. >> Okay. >> If you are building a regression model, you need to have that model fit
the type of data that you have. If you have multi-valued, linear,
multi-valued data, like ratings or perhaps some measures of popularity that
go beyond purchased and didn't purchase. You might want to use linear regression to
build a linear combination of demographics that predicts those multiple values. If your data is primarily 0/1 data,
like purchase data, then you probably want a logistic
regression that attempts to predict the probability of something being
a one given the input demographic data. Now a couple of important things, you do need to deal with the possibility
of unknown demographics. There really is no data set where
you have perfect demographics and you can model unknown demographics
in a number of different ways, you can simply use overall preferences. You might have expected demographics for
people where you don't know anything. It maybe that the costumers you had for a
long time are people you know things about and so a new comer tends to fit a batch
of whoever the reason new comers were. Demographics don't only
have to be personal data, they might be data about how long
the person's been using your site. And in some cases, it makes sense to
model unknown demographics as their own category, that the unknown folks just
behave differently from the people where you know things about them. Because they're the people who aren't yet
committed enough to tell you about themselves, maybe you don't have
any transaction data from them yet. If demographics are useful,
one of your key steps is getting data on users, so there's lots
of sources of demographic data. Advertising networks often
have demographic data. Loyalty clubs will often request
demographic data as part of the signup, so that you can use it later. Surveys can request demographics. All of these are ways of getting more
data on your visitors or customers. And in some cases, people have successfully
predicted demographics from data. There's some wonderful examples of that,
that Facebook data has been used for, because of the amount of public disclosure
that occurs in Facebook postings. It's relatively easy to predict certain
things from that Facebook data. Not only traditional demographics,
which are sometimes publicly visible, but also in many cases,
what's called psychographic data. Data about people's psyche including
personality and behaviors. Now, demographics often do work. There are some wonderful examples of this. And part of the reason they work
is that many times products or content is created with
a particular audience in mind. I remember, a long time ago at a workshop
back at the dawn of recommender systems, this was a workshop that was being
held back in 1996, I believe. There were researchers from
Microsoft Research who were showing off a television program recommender. It had some interesting behind
the scenes machine learning, it was based on Bayesian belief networks. But it worked way too well to believe that the machine learning could simply
learn your preferences in many cases. With six or seven preferences, it nailed
people's television watching behaviors. And as they explored this, part of what they explained was,
this is not an accident. Television programs,
even more than, but even true, today, are targeted towards
particular demographics. If you watched back then 60 Minutes and Murder She Wrote,
you were probably a senior citizen. If you watch certain sports programs, you
have a 70% or 80% chance of being male. If you watch certain soap operas, you
had a 70% or 80% chance of being female. And perhaps, even within certain
demographics below female. And the reason that content
was created to reach audiences was because advertisers were
trying to reach audiences. And the history of mass media was
advertisers driving content so that, that content could be used
to pitch advertisements for products and generate sales. So a lot of this is not accidental. You see the same in magazine articles and
advertisements. If a magazine article's
appearing in Us Weekly magazine, it's targeted at women
of a particular age. If it appears in Sports Illustrated
it’s targeted at a different group, and the same products, even when
they’re advertised to both groups, are often advertised differently. And of course, personal products are often
segmented, there’s probably nothing very chemically different between a deodorant
or a scent for male and female customers. But the market expects them to be
different, and so we have segmentation. So demographics can work,
not only on gender, but on age, on socioeconomic status, geography,
race, lots of different categories. On the other hand, demographics fail
miserably in a number of cases. They fail miserably in cases where
the products really are cross-cutting. Some products need to appeal very broadly,
and appeal to individuals
across all demographics. It's not clear that you
can say well what age or gender or race is going to be attracted
to a particular pad of paper or pen. But demographics also fail miserably for people whose taste don't
match their demographics. All of us know folks like this, and
in fact in any given category most of us have had some experience being the person
who doesn't listen to the music our peers listen to or doesn't watch
the movies they tend to watch. So demographics are never
going to be a perfect solution, even if they can sometimes
be a valuable solution. So, that's our summary of demographics and
related approaches. See you next time.