Welcome back, in an earlier lecture,
we talked about the fact that non-personalized
recommendations lack context. You may remember
the example of recommending ketchup to go with an ice cream sundae. As we look today at product
association recommenders, we're looking at the very specific context
of a product or small set of products. That a customer is currently looking at or consuming as our example of a way
to constrain what's recommended. So you've probably all seen these
examples in commerce sites. I'm going to give you an example from
Amazon.com which made the whole idea of people who shopped for this or
people who bought this rather famous. So here I am shopping on their site,
looking at an LED light bulb. And if I scroll down a bit, it's going to start offering me a bunch
of product association recommendations. The ones at the bottom of the screen say, customers who bought
this item also bought. And one way of recognizing that
those are likely items to suggest here would be to simply go through
all of Amazon's transactions. And look and see what people who
bought the light bulb I'm looking at also bought in the same sales transaction. You also see above
frequently bought together, this is creating a custom bundle. Perhaps constrained, you'll notice
they all come from the same brand. There are other examples of this that
can be used with different versions of people who bought,
people who shopped for and so forth. This is an example of a femoral,
contextual personalization. It's ephemeral meaning it's not
long-lasting, it's for the moment. And it's contextual, meaning it's
tied to what I'm doing right now. So it is personalized, but not personalized to me as an individual
with long term tastes and preferences. Rather personalized to me, as a person
who chooses to look at this light bulb. And in fact, if somebody else looks at
the light bulb, they'll likely see exactly the same suggestions of things people
who look at this light bulb also like. Another example, once you're doing
something like this, is that you can take those recommendations and turn
them into more value added comparisons. So something you'll see that
Amazon does here is say, gee we know you're shopping for
100 watt equivalent to LED bulbs. We can find some similar items that
people buy as alternatives and show you features of them to help
you make your decision right. If you look here, you'll see I'm
looking at an individual bulb, two other or two packages of bulbs
from another brand, Phillips. And then another stand along bulb,
all with different prices, and other features that might be different as
well as certain ones that are the same. Useful feature if I'm trying
to find the right light bulb. So our next question is
how might we compute this? The first way this was
done was all manually. Marketers would create cross-sell tables,
and in fact, in many businesses still do to guide their sales staff in what
products to suggest to somebody. Who is about to buy something or
asking about somebody or asking about some product. If you go into an electronic shop and
start looking in a television, it's quite possible that the person selling you
that television will suggest another TV. That's a little more expensive and has a few features that make it
perhaps a more attractive option. Very likely that was generated manually based on the idea that we could up
sell you from one item to another. Similarly, if you go in and buy that TV,
they're probably going to offer you a high quality,
perhaps overly premium cable, to connect that TV to your satellite or
cable box. That's a cross-sale, and that cross-sale
is often a source of great profit, and it's not that hard to say, gee
you're buying a TV that's HDMI capable. And we happen to have a $30
HDMI cable sitting around. Wouldn't it be convenient
to take that home with you? But what we're interested in
is making this automated and in fact this automated work predates
modern recommenders systems. Has people started analyzing transactions
data and mining it for associations. The challenge here is what
do we want to look for? Are we looking for things that are most
likely to be bought in this context? Are we looking to offer things that
are most extra likely to be bought in this context? Let me illustrate what I mean here. If we start simple and say look, we've got buyers who
are buying product X already, what percentage of people who buy
product X also buy product Y? So we can count the number
of people who buy X and Y, our numerator, divide it by
the number of people who buy X. And if, say, 80% of people buy X and Y, then Y is a likely thing to add
if you're already buying X. It's likely, but is it useful? Let's consider an example. Let's say that Y is bananas,
and X is anchovy paste. Not very many people go shopping for
anchovy paste. But most of the people who buy
anchovy paste also buy bananas. Is that useful information, or
is it just the reflection of the fact, that well actually, most people who don't
buy anchovy paste also buy bananas. Lots of people buy bananas. It may not be linked to
anchovy paste at all. And so it might be that we're trying to
find things that are more uniquely linked. Maybe anchovy paste is linked to buying
garlic because people are mixing them together to create Caesar salad or
Caesar dressing. If that's the case, we might want
something that's more controlled so that we don't let the popularity
of Y overwhelm it. If this sounds familiar if
you've had much statistics, you've probably heard of Bayes' Law. Simply stated, the probability of some event A given that B also occurred
can be computed in a number of ways. We can compute it using Bayes' Law
as the probability that B occurs given A times the probability
of A to begin with and divide by the overall probability of B. That inspiration can get us
into a direction were we look a bit more at how much
more likely some product Y is to be purchased than it was before X
was purchased as the triggering event. So one of the computations we're going to
use is the probability of Y given X, how likely am I to buy those
bananas given that I just bought the anchovy paste versus
the probability of why alone. How likely am I just buying bananas if that ratio comes close to one,
then X didn't change anything. On the other hand, if I'm three
times more likely to buy garlic, after I've bought anchovy paste,
then I am to buy garlic without. Then suddenly I've come
up with something where there's a greater probability that it's
relevant in this particular context. And that might be a better
recommendation in some cases than just trying to sell bananas. The approach of association rule mining
which is a technique that comes from even before recommender
systems gave us a lift metric. Where the lift associated with
a pair of products being together is the probability that
somebody would buy or consume both of them divided by the
product of their individual probabilities. This is a non directional association. It's not whether X makes Y more likely or
Y makes X more likely, but looks at how they make
each other more likely. And we can see this probably
more clearly with an example. Let's assume for the moment that X
is ketchup and Y is ground beef. If the probability of buying ketchup
in a trip to the supermarket is 10%, and the probability of buying ground
beef in the supermarket is 20%. Then if we don't know anything else,
and they were independent, the probability of the two,
the product on the bottom, would be 2%. One-tenth times one-fifth. But it turns out people put
ketchup on hamburgers a lot and so it may be that we find out
the probability that both happen together is higher than that,
maybe it's 8%. Most of the time that somebody's buying
ketchup they're also getting beef. And much of the time that they're getting
beef they're also getting ketchup. If that were the case,
that lift the 8% over 2%, a factor of four lift, says that these
are products are four times more likely. To be purchased together than if they
had no relationship to each other and were totally independent. More generally association rule mining
looks at entire baskets of products, and in fact recommenders can use
baskets of products as well. We're not going into that in this course, because we're focusing on
more personalized techniques. But, if you go into any of the techniques
on association rule mining, you can find ways to look at
whether an entire product basket suggests a particular product,
that should be recommended. As you bring association
rules into practice, there's a whole lot of
interesting stories. Some of them are even true. Starting with the famous beer and diaper story, which the best evidence
out there suggests is barely true. That an association was found that
on a particular time on the weekend, young men in their 20s, typically, were more likely to
buy beer and diapers together. Than the individual
probabilities of buying beer and diapers individually suggested. The best data I've seen on this
suggests that yes, indeed, somebody in a supermarket chain
did find this association once. But the rumors got much bigger. There's wonderful stories about one
breaking down why it is that beer and diapers are purchased together. Is it that young men,
who have little children at home just can't handle the load and
need a beer to escape? Is it that young men,
who drink a lot of beer and party on the weekends are more
likely to become fathers? None of these seem to be grounded
in data but the speculation is fun. They were also wonderful stories about
how supermarkets around the nation, maybe around the world started
stocking beer next to the diapers. So that young men who forgot to get
that beer wouldn't have a problem of their lost beer. As far as I can tell, there is no
evidence of this but it's a nice story. In practice, there are some
other good stories that perhaps, have a little more truth behind them. Last year, at the ACM Recommenders
System Conference, I saw a wonderful study that looked not at product
associations but link associations. Specifically saying for people who came
to the same article on a news site, where they came from was a good
predictor of what else to show them. Were they referred from a Facebook link,
or did they find it on Google. People who were searching for
themselves were looking for different things than people who were
getting the information from a friend. That was sort of interesting and people are looking at the question of,
can I see how someone came to my site. As a useful way to predict associations. For what I might recommend, what I don't know anything about
them including who they are. There is also the old story about the
directionality of these recommendations. And the old story was, if somebody comes in to buy an expensive
sports car, it's easy to sell them. The fancy leather driving
gloves that go with it. After all, if you're spending tens
of thousands of dollars on a car, what's a couple hundred dollars on gloves? But the story was that obviously,
if somebody comes into your department store to buy gloves, you don't turn
around and try to sell them a sports car. The interesting thing
about this obvious story is in a number of cases
it's been proven wrong. As recommender systems were deployed in
practice, one of the things that happened is that people didn't program
in some of that common sense. And so, there were test cases where
the product being recommended as an add-on was ten times more expensive than
the thing the person called in to buy. And lo and behold, somebody could call
in to buy a piece of clothing and be suggested, how about a living room set? And buy it, this is part of
the power of a recommender system. If it's well designed, it's not
matching the sports car to the gloves. It might be matching the sports
car to the individual. And if the gloves are a tipoff that
this is somebody who's interested in the sports car. Maybe offering to take them straight from
the glove department to the show room isn't such a bad idea. But in fact not all
recommendations are worth making. And something we'll see over and
over as we go forward is that with product associations just like
any other recommendation. Businesses tend to apply rules to filter
what they're willing to recommend. If you're in a case where you're Amazon. What you might say is, I don't want to recommend any
product that I have out of stock. Why tell somebody who's about to buy
something, here's a nice alternative. Oops, sorry, we don't have it. And have them run off to another vendor. I don't know that Amazon does this, but it would make common sense to not
recommend things you don't have. In other circumstances,
people don't recommend products that are currently heavily discounted
as a way to get people in the shop. You know,
why would you recommend the cheap thing if you could make a bigger sale? It's not that common that you go
to an electronics retailer and as you're buying a $1,000 television
set have them suggest a $2.99 cable. Even if the $2.99 cable is just
as good as the $30.00 cable. Somehow, that gold plating isn't
only a nice thing to sell you but it adds up to lots of nice profit for
the retailer. So not every recommendation
will make sense. There are examples of recommendations that
would be considered offensive to some if you have products
that are unduly personal system may not want to
recommend personal hygiene. It may not want to recommend things
that you may find offensive. And all of that can be programmed
in with these business rules. So, some take-away lessons on
product association recommenders. First, they fundamentally use your
present context to provide more relevant recommendations so that knowing
that you have ice cream in front of you. I don't recommend ketchup,
I recommend caramel or chocolate sauce. That could be a current product, it could be a path,
it could be a basket of products. It could even be the link that got you
here, or the search that got you here, but it's some element of your context that is
connected to what people have done before. We can compute these product associations
from prior transaction history. Most of the earlier ones simply looked at
single transactions, though many today also look at the entire inventory of
products purchased by individuals. So when I know that people who bought
this light bulb also bought that one, they may not have bought
it at the same time. It's still a useful suggestion that you
might be interested in this product. As we're computing that we
have to strike a balance between things that are high probability,
simply because they're popular and things that have increased probability. There's no correct measure here, this is a business decision as
you design your recommender. If what you need is to
sell something right away, you might place something popular. Even if you had very increased
probability, tenfold increase, if that increased probability went from
one in a thousand people buy this. To one in a hundred you might decide
its not worth using up the space. But somewhere in that balance
you're going to find something that's a useful recommendation and
still valuable as a way to provide something to your customer and
for your business. Finally, the recommendations that
you're doing from product associations might be targeted as additional purchases,
or as replacements. And what data you use might affect that. If you're looking at well, people who looked at this eventually
bought that, that might be a replacement. If you're looking at people who
bought this also bought that, it might be an add on. Both can be valuable, and both can be a way of providing
valuable customer service, thank you.