In this lecture, we're going to
be talking about threat models. We've talked some throughout
the course about privacy, noise, robustness for against attackers and
the recommender. This video is going to talk about how
to think about the threat models, the things that could damage your
recommender system in a general way. It'll deal with privacy,
it'll deal with robustness. We'll primarily be thinking
about malicious behavior, people trying to extract
information they shouldn't have. Or people trying to disrupt the system for
some reason, but it also has implications for benign
problems such as inconstinent ratings from users just due to the fact that users
don't rate things consistently. The core question that often
comes up is what does it mean for a recommender to be secure? You want to talk about
a recommender secure it's robust or maybe it protects privacy. But we need to think about these things
carefully in order to better understand exactly what kind of security or what kind
of robustness or what kind of privacy protection the recommender application or
algorithm provides. So we want to think about a threat model,
where we're trying to protect something that's important to the recommender or
to users, from someone who is trying to accomplish certain
things, and has certain capabilities. And, if we don't think about what
capabilities we assumed that the attackers has, and we should generally assume
a generous set of capabilities. Then it’s difficult to think about where
our implementation might not be adequate. And also if we don't think about what
is it that we're trying to protect, then it's difficult to formulate clearly
exactly what protections we're providing. And there may be things where we have
multiple things we want to protect, but protecting one makes another vulnerable. So for most of the rest of this lecture,
I'll go through several examples of protections that a recommender
might want to provide, and talk about the threat model
underlying those protections. So we had Paul Reznick here,
we talked about the influence limiter. To protect recommender accuracy and
neutrality, it's ability to accurately recommend in an unbiased
fashion items that users will like, from malicious users who want to push,
promote or kill particular products that they might be associated
with or associated with competitors too. And what they can do is they
can create fake account. And they can populate these accounts with
ratings and use these ratings to try to promote or harm the particular
product they're targeting. And that's threat model, we want to
protect accuracy neutrality from malicious users who want to push our kill
products and can create fake accounts. And the influence limiter may provide
protections from other threats as well, but this is one of the key
threat models in any kind of protection from a shilling attack. And so what it does is it requires
users to prove themselves. Malicious users have some threshold
to cross before their ratings can be incorporated into prediction,
and that threshold is designed to measure how much value they're
providing in the recommendation process. And so it effectively tries to make
the system resilient to those users. Alternative approaches are attempting
to detect attacking users, shilling users, and remove them from
the rating data set or discount them. There are other approaches
to resilience as well, such as making algorithms that
don't have as direct a mapping, from what the user does to
the final recommendations. But still do an effective job
of accurate recommendation. A more general, not necessarily more
general, another aspect that can also incorporate some more benign things
is we want to protect the recommender accuracy from users who either
want to disrupt its quality. Maybe they're just out to give
the recommender a bad recommendation, provide bad ratings so
it gives users bad recommendations. But this threat model, it turns out,
also deals with users who are just normal users, and by the fact of
being people, and people aren't terribly consistent in the way they express their
preferences, they give noisy ratings. And they can create profiles and ratings. And this is basically a normal de-noising
problem, dealing with either malicious or natural noise. Malicious noise is bad
ratings introduced for the purpose of disrupting a system or
promoting or killing particular products. Or a natural noise is just what
naturally occurs in the fact that we're measuring people's preference. They both fit in this framing. Recommender systems literatures,
variety of techniques for dealing with this detecting bad ratings. Either just attempting to attack noisy
ratings within a user's data set or having users rate things again, and using that to detect ratings
that are particularly noisy. We might also want to
protect user privacy. So maybe protect user data from
other users of the system. So we don't want one user to be able
to figure out what another user's ratings are. There are some systems were
user ratings are public. For example, Goodreads, your ratings are generally
shared at least with your friends. But other system ratings are not as
public or they're publicly aggregated. They are who provided what ratings
is not public information. So if we want to protect user ratings,
information about that from other users of the system who
want to know the private opinions of their fellow users, and they can create
profiles and they can manipulate ratings. One early recommend the privacy attack
took advantage of the problem with Pearson correlation and
user-user collaborative filtering, where the correlation between two users who've
just rated one thing in common is one. And with given a little bit
of information about a user, you can create a profile
that targets them. Creates a similarity of one, and can use
that to extract their preference for some item you want to
know their preference of. One mitigation strategy for this is to
use a less transparent algorithm with something like a matrix factorization,
a singular value decomposition. It's a lot harder to craft that target and
attack profile, and accurately obtain the information
of a particular user in a system. There's also considerations for
user system privacy. A lot of recommenders don't
really consider this. Goodreads knows all your ratings and
the general user contract with Gooodreads, that's fine. But there are situations, there's
been research work on recommendation, where you protect
information about the user, including their preferences from
the service provider itself. Who wants to know users' characteristics,
and can analyze all the data
that users give it. And solving this problem is hard, and
does require some more refinement and exactly what we're trying
to protect from who. Are we trying to create a system where
the system can do recommendations without knowing the users' ratings or
a particular user's ratings? Are we trying to create a system
where they know the users' ratings, but can't in such a way
that we try to protect it from being able to infer
othe datar about the user? Or maybe we have a merchant and we don't want them to be able
to obtain too much user data. But it's okay if the recommender
service might know that data so long as the merchant doesn't. And there's a variety of ideas for
providing this kind of privacy that some of them work fairly well,
some of them break down fairly quickly. One, you could separate
the recommender from the vendor. Also, these ideas can be
combined together, so you can separate
the recommender from the vendor. So one organization sells things, another
organization provides recommendations. The recommender company doesn't
get to find out what users bought, the vendor doesn't get to find out the
data that's being used in recommendations. There's been a proposals to use trusted
computing infrastructure to attest recommender integrity. So that the recommendation
servers running on computers that use cryptography and
certifications from trusted third parties, that they are implementing
recommendation in a way that preserves certain guarantees to
the users of how their data is handled. There's been proposals to pool ratings
between users so different users will pool their ratings together,
present them then to the system and get recommendations back,
to hide themselves among fellow users. Adding noise to ratings and profiles. With some of this issues there
can be fairly easy to go and just de-noise the ratings. So, if you're going to try that kind of
strategy, you have to think about how hard is going to be to just take
out the noise that's being added. Also, there's been work on
decentralizing recommendations. So that rather than having
a centralize recommender server, users collaborate with each other directly
in order to compute recommendations. And then also using things like
homomorphic encryption which is encryption protocols where you can do
computation on the encrypted data, and it is computation on
the underlying real data. So that you can provide an encrypted
version of your profile to your friend or to the service, that's encrypted
under homomorphic encryption, you do computation over that, you get
the recommendations back and decrypt them. That gets very, very expensive and is often not practical to actually
use in a deployed system, but there's been some work starting to
explore using it for recommendations. So there's a variety of ideas to provide
this kind of user-system privacy, there's not a whole lot that's
been widely deployed at present. And in a lot of systems,
the user may very well not care. They might be fine with the system
having access to their data especially if they have a relationship
of trust with the service provider. So it's important to think carefully about
the threats that you want to protect from in your recommender system, and
what threats your users might consider. And if you're going to make privacy
claims or robustness claims, or security claims about your
recommender algorithm, to be careful in thinking about what
protections you're actually providing. Carefully think out the thread
model to make sure that the claims you're providing about the kind
of privacy you preserve, in both a research setting and
in an industrial setting, and the advertising claims that you make to
your users about what your algorithm does. Think carefully about the threat model to
make sure the your claims are accurate. And also, it helps you to understand where the
vulnerabilities in your system might be.